# CS122 Bioinformatics Algorithms

HW 1: 10 Kilobase Alignment Using a Basic Hashmap to Identify SNPs and Indels

`basic_aligner.py` takes in a reference genome, a set of reads, an output filename, and an output header and outputs the SNPs called based on its produced alignment

Running the above script with the `-h` option should be self explanatory, but here is an example of running them to create the output file.

```
python basic_aligner.py -g ref_practice_W_1_chr_1.txt -r reads_practice_W_1_chr_1.txt -o test_output.txt -t practice_W_1_chr_1
```


HW 2: 1 Megabase Alignment Using a Hashmap and Smith-Waterman Local Alignment to Identify SNPs and Indels.

`basic_hasher.py` takes in a reference genome, a set of reads an output filename, and an output header and outputs the SNPs and indels called based on the aligned reads.

Running the above scripts with the `-h` option should be self explanatory, but here is an example of running them to create the output file.

```
python3 basic_hasher.py -g ref_practice_E_1_chr_1.txt -r reads_practice_E_1_chr_1.txt -o test_output.txt -t practice_E_1_chr_1
```


HW 3: Genome Assembly Using DeBruijn Graphs to Generate Contigs

`basic_assembly.py` takes in a set of reads, an output filename, and an output header and outputs the contigs generated by assembly.

Running the above scripts with the `-h` option should be self explanatory, but here is an example of running them to create the output file.

```
python3 basic_assembly.py -r reads_practice_A_2_chr_1.txt -o practice_A_2_output.txt -t practice_A_2_chr_1
```


HW 4: Isoform Quantification Using Alignment and Least Squares Regression

`quantify_isoforms.py` takes in a genome, a set of reads, an annotation file, an output filename, and an output header and outputs the isoforms and their expression generated by assembly.

Running the above scripts with the `-h` option should be self explanatory, but here is an example of running them to create the output file.

```
python3 quantify_isoforms.py -g hw4_r_4/full_genome.txt -r hw4_r_4/shuffled_reads.txt -a hw4_r_4/DATA_PA_1100_0.txt -o test_output.txt -t hw4_r_4_chr_1
```
